Improve release notes (#11982)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/release/notes.md

<a name="cache"></a>
## Gradle's Dependency Cache can be relocated

> The strategy of running builds in single use environments in a CI/CD setup is a challenge for build tools as a lot of state that could be reused between builds has to be rebuilt for each execution.

Reviewer: I think the narrative could go like this:
- It's increasingly common to use a fresh environment for each build on CI (ephemeral builds)
- While it can help to increase build reliability, it can also significant overhead to each CI build making it longer
- One of the most important overhead aspects to keep in mind is dependency downloads. It's very inefficient for each CI build to download all project dependencies 
- In order to address this problem, the dependency cache can be relocated to another directory or host since Gradle 6.1
- ... explain what exactly you can use it to address the problem (e.g. move pre-populated cache to a Docker image that you use for your ephemeral builds)

Gradle has [an advanced dependency cache](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sec:dependency_cache) which helps reduce downloads of dependencies to a minimum, inside and across build invocations.

> With Gradle 6.1, the dependency cache can now be relocated to another directory or host, without the need to preserve absolute paths, for dependencies cached by Gradle 6.1 and later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Gradle 6.1, the dependency cache can now be relocated to another directory or host for dependencies cached by Gradle 6.1 and later.
```

I think this implementation detail is not needed and might be confusing here as it might sound like the use had to do something to (not) preserve something.

Author: Agreed 👍

When moved to a new location or seeded into a host image, builds will be able to leverage the dependency cache and will not need to access the network to download artifacts or metadata if they are already cached. 

Note that the cache should be primed and consumed by same Gradle version for maximum effect.
See [the documentation](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sub:cache_copy) for more details. 

<a name="compilation-order"></a>
## Defining compilation order between JVM languages

> Combining multiple JVM languages in a single project used to have limitations around which language sources could depend on which other language.

Reviewer: I think it could like this:
- In Gradle, you can use multiple JVM languages used in a single project (e.g. Java, Groovy, Scala, Kotlin)
- This is done by putting files in different languages in separate source sets
- Prior to Gradle 6.1 it was complicated to define the dependencies between different language sources, for example, if you wanted to make Kotlin code depend on Groovy code
- ... explain how you can do this now and provide a sample build script

Author: I'll rework the narrative.
For the last point, I think having a full build script sample in release notes is too much. And what's there is the relevant information.

For example it was quite complicated to make Kotlin code depend on Groovy code because explicit task dependencies were declared by the plugins.

> In addition, Gradle assumed Groovy and Scala compilation would always depend on Java compilation.

Reviewer 2: I would change the two sentences above, as the fixed dependency between Java and Groovy is the source of all issues here:

> For example, it was always complicated, and impossible with Gradle 6.0, to make Kotlin code depend on Groovy code because Gradle declared explicit task dependencies between Groovy and Java compilation.

Author: This ended up quite different with the narrative rework.

> These task dependencies have been remodelled using [directory properties](userguide/lazy_configuration.html#).

Reviewer: I'm not sure what is the value for the user of explaining how it is implemented.

Author: Promotion of lazy configuration

The relationship between compilation tasks is expressed in the task's classpath.
Removing a directory property from the classpath also removes the corresponding task dependency.
This can be used to change the relationship between Java, Groovy and Scala compilation tasks.

> Back to our example, when combining Groovy and Kotlin in the same project, you can make Kotlin classes depend on Groovy classes like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, when combining Groovy and Kotlin in the same project, you can make Kotlin classes depend on Groovy classes like this:
```

_Back to_ reads strange for me as no concrete example was introduced before.

Author: I mention Groovy and Kotlin in the first paragraph, as something hard to do. That's the reference. But if you are not getting it, then it does not work.
Will think some more about it.

Author: Changed

<a name="cache"></a>
## Gradle's Dependency Cache can be relocated

> It has become a common practice to run builds in a CI/CD pipeline with ephemeral agents, meaning single use environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It has become a common practice to run builds in a CI/CD pipeline with ephemeral agents.
```
I think this misses a verb - something like ", that is using single use environments" or ", that is running builds on single use enviornments". Or put it into the next sentence:

This practice of running builds in a _single use environment_ is used to improve reliability and reduce potential interactions between builds.

This practice is most often used to improve reliability and reduce potential interactions between builds.

> It however results in longer build times as nothing can be reused from build to build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, it results in longer build times as nothing can be reused from build to build.
```

> A significant overhead caused by this practice with Gradle is the dependency downloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A significant overhead caused by this practice with Gradle are the dependency downloads.
```

Author: I wondered about that one 😉

> Every build has a longer duration caused by the fetch of all dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every build has a longer duration caused by fetching all dependencies.
```

> With Gradle 6.1, [the dependency cache](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sec:dependency_cache) can be relocated, to another directory or host, for dependencies cached by Gradle 6.1 and later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [dependency cache](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sec:dependency_cache) of builds running with Gradle 6.1 can be relocated to another directory or host.
```
Avoid saying Gradle 6.1 twice. I think I know why you did it, but I think the reader won't get the detail from just this sentence. Important is imo the message that if you run all your builds with Gradle 6.1, then this works.

When moved to a new location or seeded into a host image, builds will be able to leverage the dependency cache and will not need to access the network to download artifacts or metadata if they are already cached. 

Note that the cache should be primed and consumed by same Gradle version for maximum effect.
See [the documentation](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sub:cache_copy) for more details. 

<a name="compilation-order"></a>
## Defining compilation order between JVM languages

> Gradle supports combining multiple JVM language in a single project, like mixing Scala and Java or Java, Groovy and Kotlin for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gradle supports combining multiple JVM language in a single project, like mixing Scala and Java or Java, Groovy and Kotlin.
```

The "like" in the sentence is already a form of "for example"

Each language will have its own source set and compile task defined.

> Prior to Gradle 6.1, the compilation dependencies were defined in a way that made them hard to tweak.

Reviewer 2: `compilation` -> `compile task` (?)

Otherwise it sounds very much like "compile dependency" (in the dependency management sense with implementation/compile configuration).

> Gradle JVM language plugins also assumed that additional languages had a dependency on the Java source set and compilation. 

Reviewer 2: A few things in this sentence sound weird to me like "Java source set and compilation". It's true I guess but it is very technical and I think if we want to explain this this alone is not helping. "Gradle JVM language plugins" also sounds like a lot while in fact it was "only" Groovy and Scala doing this.
I would just remove this sentence. The "defined in a way that made them hard to tweak." from the sentence above already covers it.

> It was complicated, and even impossible with Gradle 6.0, to make Kotlin code depend on Groovy code because of the explicit task dependencies declared by the plugins.

Reviewer 2: If you remove the other sentences:
`plugins` -> `Groovy and Scala plugins`

Author: Only mentioned the Groovy plugin as I added a "For example" to start the sentence

<a name="cache"></a>
## Gradle's Dependency Cache can be relocated

It's increasingly common to run builds in a CI/CD pipeline with ephemeral agents (single-use environments) to improve reliability and reduce potential interactions between builds.
However, without optimization, it results in significantly longer build times as no state is reused between builds.
For example, all dependencies would be re-downloaded for each build.
 
Starting with Gradle 6.1, [the dependency cache](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sec:dependency_cache) can be copied, to another directory or host.
When the dependency cache copy is made available as part of a single-use environment, builds will be able to leverage it and will not need to access the network to download artifacts or metadata if they are already cached. 

The Gradle version used when generating the cache and using it should be confirmed compatible for maximum cache effectiveness.
See [the documentation](userguide/dependency_resolution.html#sub:cache_copy) for more details. 

<a name="compilation-order"></a>
## Defining compilation order between JVM languages

> Gradle supports combining multiple JVM language in a single project, like mixing Scala and Java or Java, Groovy and Kotlin.

Reviewer 2: `Java or Java` reads a bit weird. Maybe fix by replacing:

`Scala and Java` -> `Java and Scala`

Each language will have its own source set and compile task defined.

> Previously the dependencies between each language compile tasks were defined in a way that made them hard to tweak.

Reviewer 2: `Previously the` -> `Previously, the`
